## Enter the Gaming World

After presenting the first prototype in class, we were given harsh (but necessary feedback). In trying to create a full application, we lost sight of the exploration component of the project. Yes, we are aiming to design an application (or part of). However, we are attempting to design for a particular social and mobile computing problem and in our prototype very little of the testing session focused on learning more about accountability as an area of interest. Within the feedback we learned that, besides focusing too much on task progression, we also build a prototype that did went straight to the point instead of playing with design constructs like gamification. 

For this reason, the team decided that one of the prototypes should follow the path of gamifying accountability in goal completion. For this specific prototype, Sanjana and Sebastian would take initiative in developing the prototype and testing session to learn more about translating game elements into social and group accountability. 

## Throwing out the First Ideas

Before setting ideas in stone, a brainstorming session was carried out. The preliminary ideas helped pick some game elements that would be relevant to the context of goal completion. For example, and idea put forward was that of an update sequence every time the application is opened. This updated sequence would have a bar that displays ranges (danger zone, safe zone, excellence zone) in which a user could sit in withing their goals. If a user uploaded a photo to prove their are working on a goal, other users could give points to this task to move from a danger zone to the excellence zone. Everyday day a user does not participate on their goals their status would move closer to the danger zone. 

The point allocation system would be that of a circulating currency. As the members of the group allocate points, the recipient of those points could use those points gained to give them others based on their goal progression. This way, the total amount of points would always be the same but the amount that each player holds changes as the members vote on the progress of others. 

While the gamification elements were quite useful to explore from the beginning, we still lacked additional exploration on how users of our target market keep themselves accountable (outside and within a group). Leartning more about this would be the next step as this would give us a clearer idea on what elements need to be included in the application and the general theme of our system. 

## Learning more from users 

After talking to potential users part of our target market, there were some interesting observations that helped guide our design. When asked about his own accountability, on of the interviewees mentioned that he is rarely accountable to himself and expressed a general disbelief towards goal setting. In probing this, we found that he exhibited an issue wit goal setting mentioning that "he rarely meets the goals he sets" (mainly relating to studying). The opposite side was also discovered, where a user was accountable to herself by keeping an updated log of what needs to be done each day. She makes sure to check her diary multiple times a day to keep track of everything, and mentioned that in setting goals she makes sure that they are realistic and containing a time frame for each task.

From this, we were able to identify that a person's accountability is closely related with their ability to set achievable goals. While the respondent unable to set appropriate goals for himself mentioned that he is not very accountable to himself, the other respondent who was meticulous with setting goals mentioned that they tend to complete their goals within the intended time as she pushed herself to achieve her aims. This insight is helpful as it hints that the system we implement will have to consider accountability from the perspective of goal creation. Can a user be held accountable to the standards they are setting themselves?

While receiving varied responses on whether the two respondents held themselves accountable for their own goals, both of them mentioned that their friends had requested them to keep them accountable when setting up new goals (both said that this is not an uncommon occurrence). When asked what techniques they used to keep their friends accountable, there were many ways mentioned by the respondents and some of the were quite polarized. The first respondent quickly pointed out that he is a "tough love" kind of person. He prefers drilling down on the person and making them feel bad over the fact that are not accomplishing their aims. When questioned on the effectiveness of this method, the user mentioned that while this method is his preferred one (as it would work on him) it may not always work because people need to be treated differently based on what works for them. On the other hand, the other user identified that their preferred method is to encourage those who need help and check up with them to see how they are doing.

With these responses (and the help of other smaller comments and insights), we were able to come up with two main themes for the system which could be incorporated into a gamified accountability system:

**1- The lawmaker and the sheriff:** the lawmaker and the sheriff concept comes from the separation of roles. Lawmakers are the users who will set themselves the goals and the parameters of how to achieve them. On other hand, sheriffs are those users who will enforce the rules made by lawmakers. How does this relate to out application?

Well from the interviews mentioned above, we gathered that some people might be good in setting goals while others may not. In other cases, some users may be good at motivating and keeping account of others while others might not. This separation of roles makes it easier to understand the responsibilities within the group and allows each user to capitalise on their strengths in their social group. 

**2- The Carrot and the stick:** The metaphor of the carrot and the stick is the idea that we will focus on with the next prototype. During the interviews, it was mentioned that in keeping someone accountable there is a need to understand if positive reinforcements or punishments works better for a particular person. The carrot and the stick comes in as a way of using both of these methods for each user. As users get closer to their goals, they would recieve carrots as a reward and if they stalled progress then they could be given the stick as a punishment. This metaphor drove most of the gamification prototype as you will see below. 

