# Week 12 Standup 

## Drawing to a Close 

As the project deadline draws closer, it has been a race against time for the team to define the design direction of the project. While previous testing has uncovered intriguing insights, we still struggled with a broad concept that could be adapted or turned into anything. The problem with this is that our concept attempted to be a one size fit all type solution, which on closer inspection, was so broad that it fit loosely on any type of scenario. The idea of accountability is not a simple one to pin down, specially considering that many factors are at play. This became clear as testing for our prototypes showed a wide range of themes from respondents. For example, while some user could make themeselves accountable others could not which showed that different users would need to be treated differently. Another theme was that of positive reinforcement versus negative reinforcement in keeping someone accountable. This was as expressed during target market research interviews when a user acknowledged that while he needed negative reinforcement, he understood that some may react better to positive encouragement and reminding others about their goals in pushing them to accomplish what they had set. 

Learning more about accountability regularly led to the broadening of the design scope instead of narrowing down the concept. After the last standup in week 10, we had 3 different prototypes: one investigating gamification, another following an activity feed, and another that drifted away from an accountability application to a social media platform that could drive accountability. The purpose of the split between the three prototypes was to divide an conquer. The final prototype/concept would use the positives of each individual design into a final application that would incorporate all of the team's learnings on accountability through the whole of the semester.

While we were eager to chose a specific context in which our accountability application would be used, we were also set to do the testing for the three different prototypes and get new insights from those results. The decision was made to wait a little longer before narrowing down the concept to allow for the new results to steer the direction of the project. Some of the prototypes where improved on before they were tested to fit better with the richer information we wanted to obtain, so feel free to check the prototypes on the folders within this github to get a reminder on each prototype.

On this folder corresponding to the week 12 standup, you will find the summary from the testing sessions for the different prototypes in their individual folders. These results were used by the team in discussing the final concept to be dynamically prototype. The final concept and idea to be prototype also has its own folder which further details how we arrived to that point and everything that the prototype will contain. 

We are axcited for the progress we have made on finalising the concept and from now until next week's showcase it will be development time to bring to reality as much of the concept as possible.   

